Welcome back.
Let's have a look at how we would want to solve this question.
That is how do we create a stack data structure that has peak PUSH and POP.
Now peak should be fairly easy right.
We just want to see the very top item on the stack so I can just say Peake is going to return this dot
top.
That's it.
Nice and simple so that if we run my stack dot peak it's going to return.
No because well there's nothing in our stack This top is.
No that is empty.
Let's go to the interesting one that is push.
How do we add things to the stack.
Well the very first thing we want to do is to create a new node and like I said we can create a new
object here if we want or we can just use the Node class that I provided for you here.
We can use the class by saying new node which instantiates a class and gives it the value that we're
going to push with.
Next we want to check if this is the very first item because if the stack is empty and this is the very
first item while top and bottom are both going to point to the same note.
So in that case we can check for if this dot length is equal to zero.
In that case we can just say this top is going to equal the new node.
And also this top bottom is going to equal the new node Otherwise we have to do something a little bit
different but not that different because we've seen it in the linked list example we just have to change
some pointers around.
In our case we want to say Konst holding pointer to the very top node.
Because what's ever on top now is going to get replaced by whatever we're going to add to it.
So we're going to hold the reference to what was top originally and then we're going to say that this
startup is now going to equal the new node and this dot top dot next which is now the new node is going
to point to what was top beforehand but now is below it.
So we just say holding pointer.
So that is the Alltop is now going to be right after our new node and then finally we do that this dot
Blant plus plus to increment the length by 1 and then finally we want to return.
Let's just return this which will return us the link list.
Let's see if that worked.
I'm going to say Peke first.
Well there's nothing here but if I want to push to my stack I'm going to say push and we'll push Google
first because we're visiting Google first.
And if I run this I get it data structure that has top that has the node value of Google.
Next is not because we only have one item and the bottom is also the same Google with next note.
And our stack has a lenth of one.
What if we keep adding here.
Let's go to you Demy next.
If I click run I now have a length of two stack that has top node as you Dammy and bottom node as Google
because remember with a stack we stack plates on top.
That is you Demy came in last.
So you Dammy is on top.
Remember Life'll last and first step.
Let's add one more let's say that we next visit our desk or community.
So all I say push this gourd and I click run and there you go.
We have our Dischord community at the top at the bottom is node.
And just to make sure that our Peke is working.
If I do peek we should get discord because it was the last stand and the very top of our stack.
Very nice.
I hope you got that.
Let's continue with pop that is to remove whatever's on the top of the stack.
Well let's first check to make sure that there is an item because if there isn't and we just have no.
Well we just return no.
So in this case we can just say if this startup if it doesn't exist in that case we'll just return.
The next we can just do our Konst holding pointer to this dot top.
So what is currently at the top which is discord I will say that this Daut top is no longer what it
currently is because we want to remove it.
It's going to equal this dot top dot next which is underneath discord.
And then finally we say this at length minus minus because we want to decrease the lent by one.
And then finally we can say return this now.
Remember because Javascript is a garbage collected language.
If I didn't do this and said holding pointer to this dot top Well discord this note that contains discord
wouldn't be referenced by anything.
And not used by anything which means in a garbage collected language like javascript that it will get
automatically removed from memory during garbage collection.
So if I run this while I haven't done anything yet.
But right now for pop let's just return the holding pointer.
If I click Run or Let's first do my stack dot pop to remove discord from the list.
If I click run I get back the or node which is the holding pointer in case we still want to have access
to it.
Otherwise if we just wanted to disappear and we don't need it anymore we can just return this.
We can even comment out the holding pointer.
And if I click run we now have just you Demy at the top and Google at the bottom and discord is disappeared
from memory.
So let's keep going here.
Let's say I want to pop one more
and if I run this I now only have one thing the Google which was original item on the stack.
So while we just did was we went to Google then we went to you Dammy.
Then we went to discord and then we popped whatever's on the top and then we popped you Dammy and now
we're just left with Google.
If I do one last pop here and I click on we have top which is not all but oh we have a bottom node still
having Google because we never removed in the pop our bottom node.
All we did was replace the top.
So we just need to add one conditional here which is if this dot top equals this dot bottom.
That means there's only one item on the list.
I could have also done this Lent equals zero if both of them are equal which means there is just one
note left.
In that case we want to say that this dot bottom is going to equal no.
Because after we remove the only node left you want bottom to equal no.
So if I do this and click run there you go.
We're back to our original empty stack.
I hope you got that and were able to make sense of it.
We have another exciting exercise in the next video.
I'll see that one.
Bobby.